---
Layout:
Title: "Redux"
Date: 2019-07-16
categories:
---

###what is Redux?
Redux is a predictable state container for JavaScript apps.

###Principles of Redux
Single Source of Truth
The state of your whole application is stored in an object tree within a single store.

The state of all the pieces (components) of your application depends on one root object tree.

This makes your application easier to look at as a whole. Debugging becomes easier too. This also makes it easy to write the state locally (or on a server) and rehydrate it later.

State is Read Only
The only way to change the state is to emit an action, an object describing what happened.

Views cannot change the state DIRECTLY!
In Redux, you dispatch actions. These actions tell a function (called reducer) to update the state. Redux docs also recommend not mutating the state. Each action instructs the reducer to replace the existing state with a new version.

You now have a record of every action dispatched by the user. This is what allows us to do things like time travel debugging with Redux. More on that in upcoming articles.

Use Pure Functions for Changes
To specify how the state tree is transformed by actions, you write pure reducers.

A reducer is a simple and special function. This function takes the current state and an action and returns a new state. It DOES NOT mutate the state.

This function is also special for another reason. It’s pure! A pure function always returns the same output for a set of inputs (arguments).

###Three Pillars of Redux
Store
The store is the soul of Redux. The store is the single source of truth for the application

getState
This method returns the current state.

dispatch
This dispatches an action. It is the only way to update the application state.

subscribe
This method subscribes a change listener to the state. When the reducer updates the state, it calls all subscribed listener methods.

They can access the state using the .getState method.

unsubscribe
This is the method returned when you call the store.subscribe(listener) method. It’s useful if you no longer want to call your listener method when the state changes.

###Action
Actions are plain JavaScript objects. They usually have a payload and always have a type.

###Reducers
Reducers are the pure functions we were talking about above. They know what to do with an action and its information (payload).
