---
Layout:
Title: "Reducer"
Date: 2019-09-25
categories:
---
### what is MongoDB?
MongoDB is an open-source document database and leading NoSQL database. MongoDB is written in C++. 
MongoDB is a cross-platform, document oriented database that provides, high performance, high availability, and easy scalability. MongoDB works on concept of collection and document.

### Database
Database is a physical container for collections. Each database gets its own set of files on the file system. A single MongoDB server typically has multiple databases.

### Document
A document is a set of key-value pairs. Documents have dynamic schema. Dynamic schema means that documents in the same collection do not need to have the same set of fields or structure, and common fields in a collection's documents may hold different types of data.

### Advantages of MongoDB over RDBMS
-Structure of a single object is clear.

-No complex joins.

-Deep query-ability. MongoDB supports dynamic queries on documents using a document-based query language that's nearly as powerful as SQL.

-Tuning

-Conversion/mapping of application objects to database objects not needed.

-Uses internal memory for storing the (windowed) working set, enabling faster access of data.

### Why Use MongoDB?
-Document Oriented Storage − Data is stored in the form of JSON style documents.

-Index on any attribute

-Replication and high availability

-Auto-sharding

-Rich queries

-Fast in-place updates

-Professional support by MongoDB





