---
Layout:
Title: "Queue"
Date: 2019-10-15
categories:
---
### What is Queue?
Queue is an abstract data structure, somewhat similar to Stacks. Unlike stacks, a queue is open at both its ends. One end is always used to insert data (enqueue) and the other is used to remove data (dequeue).

### Basic Operations
Queue operations may involve initializing or defining the queue, utilizing it, and then completely erasing it from the memory. 

-enqueue() − add (store) an item to the queue.

-dequeue() − remove (access) an item from the queue.

-peek() − Gets the element at the front of the queue without removing it.

-isfull() − Checks if the queue is full.

-isempty() − Checks if the queue is empty.

### peek()
This function helps to see the data at the front of the queue.

### isfull()
As we are using single dimension array to implement queue, we just check for the rear pointer to reach at MAXSIZE to determine that the queue is full. In case we maintain the queue in a circular linked-list, the algorithm will differ.

### isempty()
If the value of front is less than MIN or 0, it tells that the queue is not yet initialized, hence empty.

### Enqueue Operation
Step 1 − Check if the queue is full.

Step 2 − If the queue is full, produce overflow error and exit.

Step 3 − If the queue is not full, increment rear pointer to point the next empty space.

Step 4 − Add data element to the queue location, where the rear is pointing.

Step 5 − return success.

### Dequeue Operation
Step 1 − Check if the queue is empty.

Step 2 − If the queue is empty, produce underflow error and exit.

Step 3 − If the queue is not empty, access the data where front is pointing.

Step 4 − Increment front pointer to point to the next available data element.

Step 5 − Return success.



