---
Layout:
Title: "Java"
Date: 2019-10-28
categories:
---

### What is Java?
Java is a programming language and a platform.
Java is a high level, robust, object-oriented and secure programming language.

### Application
-Desktop Applications such as acrobat reader, media player, antivirus, etc.

-Web Applications such as irctc.co.in, javatpoint.com, etc.

-Enterprise Applications such as banking applications.

-Mobile

-Embedded System

-Smart Card

-Robotics

-Games, etc.

### Types of Java Applications
1) Standalone Application
Standalone applications are also known as desktop applications or window-based applications. These are traditional software that we need to install on every machine. Examples of standalone application are Media player, antivirus, etc. AWT and Swing are used in Java for creating standalone applications.

2) Web Application
An application that runs on the server side and creates a dynamic page is called a web application. Currently, Servlet, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, etc. technologies are used for creating web applications in Java.

3) Enterprise Application
An application that is distributed in nature, such as banking applications, etc. is called enterprise application. It has advantages of the high-level security, load balancing, and clustering. In Java, EJB is used for creating enterprise applications.

4) Mobile Application
An application which is created for mobile devices is called a mobile application. Currently, Android and Java ME are used for creating mobile applications.

### Java Platforms / Editions