---
Layout:
Title: "capling"
Date: 2019-09-30
categories:
---
### What is capling ?
Coupling is a powerful method in probability theory through which random variables can
be compared with each other. Coupling has been applied in a broad variety of contexts, e.g.
to prove limit theorems, to derive inequalities, or to obtain approximations.
The present course is intended for master students and PhD students.

### What is Software design?
Software design is a process to transform user requirements into some suitable form, which helps the programmer in software coding and implementation.

#### Software design yields three levels of results
-Architectural Design - The architectural design is the highest abstract version of the system. It identifies the software as a system with many components interacting with each other. At this level, the designers get the idea of proposed solution domain.

-High-level Design- The high-level design breaks the ‘single entity-multiple component’ concept of architectural design into less-abstracted view of sub-systems and modules and depicts their interaction with each other. High-level design focuses on how the system along with all of its components can be implemented in forms of modules. It recognizes modular structure of each sub-system and their relation and interaction among each other.

-Detailed Design- Detailed design deals with the implementation part of what is seen as a system and its sub-systems in the previous two designs. It is more detailed towards modules and their implementations. It defines logical structure of each module and their interfaces to communicate with other modules.

### Modularization
Modularization is a technique to divide a software system into multiple discrete and independent modules, which are expected to be capable of carrying out task(s) independently.
Modular design unintentionally follows the rules of ‘divide and conquer’ problem-solving strategy this is because there are many other benefits attached with the modular design of a software.

### Advantage of modularization
-Smaller components are easier to maintain
-Program can be divided based on functional aspects
-Desired level of abstraction can be brought in the program
-Components with high cohesion can be re-used again
-Concurrent execution can be made possible
-Desired from security aspect
