---
Layout:
Title: "Ajax"
Date: 2019-10-02
categories:
---
### What is Ajax?
AJAX stands for Asynchronous JavaScript and XML. AJAX is a new technique for creating better, faster, and more interactive web applications with the help of XML, HTML, CSS, and Java Script.

### Why to Learn Ajax?
-Ajax uses XHTML for content, CSS for presentation, along with Document Object Model and JavaScript for dynamic content display.

-Conventional web applications transmit information to and from the sever using synchronous requests. It means you fill out a form, hit submit, and get directed to a new page with new information from the server.

-With AJAX, when you hit submit, JavaScript will make a request to the server, interpret the results, and update the current screen. In the purest sense, the user would never know that anything was even transmitted to the server.

-XML is commonly used as the format for receiving server data, although any format, including plain text, can be used.

-AJAX is a web browser technology independent of web server software.

-A user can continue to use the application while the client program requests information from the server in the background.

-Intuitive and natural user interaction. Clicking is not required, mouse movement is a sufficient event trigger.

-Data-driven as opposed to page-driven.

### AJAX is Based on Open Standards
-Browser-based presentation using HTML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).

-Data is stored in XML format and fetched from the server.

-Behind-the-scenes data fetches using XMLHttpRequest objects in the browser.

-JavaScript to make everything happen.

### JavaScript
-Loosely typed scripting language.

-JavaScript function is called when an event occurs in a page.

-Glue for the whole AJAX operation.

### DOM
-API for accessing and manipulating structured documents.

-Represents the structure of XML and HTML documents.

### CSS
Allows for a clear separation of the presentation style from the content and may be changed programmatically by JavaScript

### XMLHttpRequest
-JavaScript object that performs asynchronous interaction with the server.
